docs/guide/development.md, before:

# Development

WXT's main goal is providing the best DX it possibly can. When running your extension in dev mode, each part of your extension is reloaded separately when possible.

|                     | HMR | Reloaded individually | Reload extension |                    Restart browser                     |
| ------------------- | :-: | :-------------------: | :--------------: | :----------------------------------------------------: |
| HTML File           |     |          ✅           |
| HTML Dependency     | ✅  |
| MV3 Content Script  |     |          ✅           |
| MV2 Content Script  |     |                       |        ✅        |
| Background          |     |                       |        ✅        |
| manifest.json       |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#16](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/16) |
| `wxt.config.ts`     |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#10](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/10) |
| `web-ext.config.ts` |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#10](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/10) |

## Configure Browser Startup

WXT uses [`web-ext` by Mozilla](https://github.com/mozilla/web-ext) to automatically open a browser with the extension installed. You can configure the runner's behavior via the [`runner`](/api/wxt/interfaces/InlineConfig#runner) option, or in a separate gitignored file, `web-ext.config.ts`.

:::code-group

```ts [wxt.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineConfig({
  runner: {
    // Runner config
  },
});
```

```ts [web-ext.config.ts]
import { defineRunnerConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineRunnerConfig({
  // Runner config
});
```

:::

You may also setup default for your entire computer by creating a `web-ext.config.ts` file in your home directory. This is useful if you want to specify config for all project on your computer, like that you want to use Chrome Beta instead of Chrome.

```ts
// ~/web-ext.config.ts
import { defineRunnerConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineRunnerConfig({
  binaries: {
    chrome: '/path/to/chrome-beta',
  },
});
```

Commit message:

docs: Improve `runner.binaries` documentation

docs/guide/development.md, after:

# Development

WXT's main goal is providing the best DX it possibly can. When running your extension in dev mode, each part of your extension is reloaded separately when possible.

|                     | HMR | Reloaded individually | Reload extension |                    Restart browser                     |
| ------------------- | :-: | :-------------------: | :--------------: | :----------------------------------------------------: |
| HTML File           |     |          ✅           |
| HTML Dependency     | ✅  |
| MV3 Content Script  |     |          ✅           |
| MV2 Content Script  |     |                       |        ✅        |
| Background          |     |                       |        ✅        |
| manifest.json       |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#16](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/16) |
| `wxt.config.ts`     |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#10](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/10) |
| `web-ext.config.ts` |     |                       |                  | 🟡 See [#10](https://github.com/wxt-dev/wxt/issues/10) |

## Configure Browser Startup

WXT uses [`web-ext` by Mozilla](https://github.com/mozilla/web-ext) to automatically open a browser with the extension installed. You can configure the runner's behavior via the [`runner`](/api/wxt/interfaces/InlineConfig#runner) option, or in a separate gitignored file, `web-ext.config.ts`.

:::code-group

```ts [wxt.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineConfig({
  runner: {
    // Runner config
  },
});
```

```ts [web-ext.config.ts]
import { defineRunnerConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineRunnerConfig({
  // Runner config
});
```

:::

`web-ext`'s browser discovery is very limitted. By default, it only guesses at where Chrome and Firefox are installed. If you've customized your install locations, you may need to tell `web-ext` where the binaries/executables are located using the [`binaries` option](/api/wxt/interfaces/ExtensionRunnerConfig#binaries). For other Chromium based browsers, like Edge or Opera, you'll need to explicitly list them in the `binaries` option as well, otherwise they will open in Chrome by default.

```ts
// ~/web-ext.config.ts
import { defineRunnerConfig } from 'wxt';

export default defineRunnerConfig({
  binaries: {
    chrome: '/path/to/chrome-beta', // Use Chrome Beta instead of regular Chrome
    firefox: 'firefoxdeveloperedition', // Use Firefox Developer Edition instead of regular Firefox
    edge: '/path/to/edge', // Open MS Edge when running "wxt -b edge"
  },
});
```

:::tip
When configuring browser binaries, it's helpful to put them in `~/web-ext.config.ts` instead of the project directory's `web-ext.config.ts` file. When placed in your home directory (`~/`), this config will be used by all WXT projects, so you only need to configure the binaries once.
:::
